Blockchain technology is an advanced database mechanism that allows transparent information sharing within a network. This aspect reduces the need for trusted third parties which are usually auditors or other humans that add costs and make mistakes.
KEY TAKEAWAYS
Blockchain is a type of shared database that differs from a typical database in the way it stores information; Different types of information can be stored on a blockchain, but the most common use actions has been as a ledger For Bitcoin transactions are permanently recorded and viewable to but the key difference between a traditional database or spreadsheet and a blockchain is how the data is structured and accessed and accessing information and saving and storing it somewhere. Once it is full the information is run through an encryption
Is Blockchain Secure?
Blockchain technology achieves decentralized security and trust in several ways. That is they are always added to the “end” of the blockchain. After a block has been added to the end of the blockchain, previous blocks cannot be changed.
A change in any data changes the hash of the block it was in. Because each block contains the previous block's hash, a change in one would change the following blocks.
Not allare100%impenetrable. They are distributed ledgers that use code to create the security level they have become known for. If there are vulnerabilities in the coding, they can be exploited.
For instance, imagine that a hacker runs a node on a blockchain network and wants to alter a blockchain and steal cryptocurrency from everyone else.
The four main types of blockchain technology are,
1) Public
2) Private
3) Consortium
4) Hybrid.
Public blockchains:
The most well-known type is public blockchains are open and decentralized networks that allow anyone to participate and view transactions. These blockchains operate on a distributed ledger system, where multiple nodes validate and record transactions.
Private blockchains:
Ideal for managing internal organizational processes, private blockchains are extensively used in supply chain management to ensure efficiency and transparency. They also facilitate internal
voting mechanisms, guaranteeing secure and transparent decision-making processes within organisations
Consortium blockchains:
A type of blockchain that bridges the gap between public and private networks, consortium blockchains are suitable for industries with multiple stakeholders, such as finance, healthcare, and supply chain.
Hybrid blockchains:
A combination of the private and public blockchain, hybrid blockchains are semi-private or partly permission less and partly permissioned. This gives them a greater degree of flexibility, as some data can be made private, while other data can be opened to the public at the same time.
